Update Generic Host to 6.0 (#24189)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/host/generic-host.md

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/09/2021
no-loc: [Home, Privacy, Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: fundamentals/host/generic-host
---
# .NET Generic Host in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

> The ASP.NET Core templates create a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication>, which configure and build a .NET Generic Host behind the scenes.

Reviewer: `behind the scenes.` is slang that won't MT

```suggestion
The ASP.NET Core templates create a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication>, which configure and build a .NET Generic Host .
```

> For more information on configuring the .NET Generic Host using `WebApplicationBuilder`, see <xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis>. This article provides information on using the .NET Generic Host directly in ASP.NET Core.

Author: Do we need a strong message here to discourage using `Host`? If yes, how strong should it be? I know `WebApplication` is preferred, but does that mean this article is no longer relevant? What if people want to use the `Host` directly, or if they have to for anything `WebApplication` might not support?

Reviewer: @halter73 can you provide some guidance on this topic?

Reviewer 2: Our goal is to make `WebApplication` support any scenario where you would have used `            `Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args) .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder => ...` before. We believe this provides a better developer experience for configuring most web apps.

However, there are still some scenarios where using `Host` directly is more flexible particularly if you want non-default behavior. There's an issue to address this in .NET 7 at https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/32485.

I don't think we need a strong message discouraging using `Host`. It's not deprecated, and there are some scenarios where it's still better suited than `WebApplication`.

> The ASP.NET Core templates create a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication>, which configure, build, and wrap a .NET Generic Host. For more information on configuring the .NET Generic Host using `WebApplicationBuilder` and `WebApplication`, see <xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis>.

Reviewer: I'm not sure the minimal API's link is the best link. How about [New hosting model](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/migration/50-to-60?view=aspnetcore-6.0&tabs=visual-studio#new-hosting-model) ?

Author: Yes, agreed. I didn't know that was there, but I think it's a much better fit.

Reviewer 2: I think mentioning that `WebApplication` wraps the generic host is mostly an implementation detail that doesn't really matter to the developers using it. Maybe this could be rewritten as follows.

```suggestion
The ASP.NET Core templates create a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication>, which proved a streamlined way to configure in run web applications without a `Startup` class. For more information on configuring the .NET Generic Host using `WebApplicationBuilder` and `WebApplication`, see <xref:migration/50-to-60#new-hosting-model>.
```

I'm not sure if the updated link is valid. Eventually, it would probably be best to add a new a section for `WebApplication` under `fundamentals/host/` and link to that.
